feat: add new validator format (#60)
orange-cloudavenue/terraform-plugin-framework-validators: docs/stringvalidator/format.md

---
hide:
    - navigation
---
# `Format`

> This validator is a generic validator for checking if the string is a valid format.

Reviewer: The Format validator is a flexible utility designed to validate whether a given string adheres to specific predefined formats. It supports multiple validation types, enabling you to ensure strings meet requirements such as Base64 encoding, UUIDs, etc

## How to use it

> The validator takes a list of FormatValidatorType.
> 
> The list can contain one or more of the following values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The validator accepts a list of FormatValidatorType values, which specify the formats to validate. You can include one or more of the following options:
```

* `IsBase64` - Check if the string is a valid Base64 encoded string.
* `IsUUID` - Check if the string is a valid (v4) UUID.
* `IsURN` - Check if the string is a valid URN.

### Example IsBase64

> The following example will check if the string is a valid Base64 encoded string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates how to use the validator to check if a string is a valid Base64-encoded value.
```

```go
// Schema defines the schema for the resource.
func (r *xResource) Schema(ctx context.Context, _ resource.SchemaRequest, resp *resource.SchemaResponse) {
    resp.Schema = schema.Schema{
        (...)
            "content_encoded": schema.StringAttribute{
                Optional:            true,
                MarkdownDescription: "Content for ...",
                Validators: []validator.String{
                    fstringvalidator.Cases([]fstringvalidator.FormatValidatorType{
                        fstringvalidator.IsBase64,
                    }, true)
                },
            },
```

### Example IsUUID

> The following example will check if the string is a valid (v4) UUID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates how to use the validator to check if a string is a valid version 4 (v4) UUID.
```

```go

> // Schema defines the schema for the resource.
> func (r *xResource) Schema(ctx context.Context, _ resource.SchemaRequest, resp *resource.SchemaResponse) {
>     resp.Schema = schema.Schema{
>         (...)
>             "vm_id": schema.StringAttribute{
>                 Optional:            true,
>                 MarkdownDescription: "The VM ID for ...",
>                 Validators: []validator.String{
>                     fstringvalidator.IsUUID
>                 },
>             },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
func (r *xResource) Schema(ctx context.Context, _ resource.SchemaRequest, resp *resource.SchemaResponse) {
    resp.Schema = schema.Schema{
        (...)
        "uuid": schema.StringAttribute{
            Optional:            true,
            MarkdownDescription: "Unique identifier (UUID v4) for the resource.",
            Validators: []validator.String{
                fstringvalidator.Cases(
                    []fstringvalidator.FormatValidatorType{
                        fstringvalidator.IsUUID,
                    }, 
                    true,
                ),
            },
        },
    }
}
```

```

### Example IsURN

The following example will check if the string is a valid URN.

```go

> // Schema defines the schema for the resource.
> func (r *xResource) Schema(ctx context.Context, _ resource.SchemaRequest, resp *resource.SchemaResponse) {
>     resp.Schema = schema.Schema{
>         (...)
>             "vm_id": schema.StringAttribute{
>                 Optional:            true,
>                 MarkdownDescription: "The VM ID for ...",
>                 Validators: []validator.String{
>                     fstringvalidator.IsURN
>                 },
>             },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Schema defines the schema for the resource.
func (r *xResource) Schema(ctx context.Context, _ resource.SchemaRequest, resp *resource.SchemaResponse) {
    resp.Schema = schema.Schema{
        (...)
        "urn": schema.StringAttribute{
            Optional:            true,
            MarkdownDescription: "Uniform Resource Name (URN) for the resource.",
            Validators: []validator.String{
                fstringvalidator.Cases(
                    []fstringvalidator.FormatValidatorType{
                        fstringvalidator.IsURN,
                    }, 
                    true,
                ),
            },
        },
    }
}
```
